Editing Console levels permissions (#133)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/development_suite/identity-and-access-management/console-levels-and-permission-management.md

title:  Console levels and permission management
sidebar_label: Console Levels and Permission Management
---

> Assigning different Roles and permissions to each [Identity](/development_suite/identity-and-access-management/overview.md#identity-and-access-management) that has access to Mia-Platform Console is a key action for defining responsibilities within your platform ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assigning different roles and permissions to each [Identity](/development_suite/identity-and-access-management/overview.md#identity-and-access-management) that has access to Mia-Platform Console is a key action for defining responsibilities within your platform ecosystem.
```

The Console is based on hierarchical levels and, for each of them, specific permissions and capabilities have been identified and can be assigned.  
Let's see how they are configured.

## Console Levels

The Console resources are organized in a hierarchical structure on three levels:

1. **Console level** is the root level regarding the general configuration of your Console. 

> At this level you can configure some resources such as Companies, Project Templates and Marketplace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this level you can configure resources such as Companies, Project Templates and Marketplace.
```

> 1. **Company level** is the second hierarchical level. A Company can contain several underlying Projects, which can inherit different kinds of information from the Company without needing further configuration. At this level, License, Clusters, Providers, Users, Service Account Users, Groups can be managed. To know more about Company configuration, check out the dedicated [documentation section](/development_suite/company/create.mdx).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **Company level** is the second hierarchical level. A Company can contain several underlying Projects, which can inherit different kinds of information from the Company without needing further configuration. At this level, License, Clusters, Providers, Users and Service Accounts can be managed. To know more about Company configuration, check out the dedicated [documentation section](/development_suite/company/create.mdx).
```

I'd add groups reference in PR #125 once this one is merged. Without Groups references we can bring these changes to production before the release of groups management

Author: clear, thanks for the review

> 1. **Company level** is the second hierarchical level. A Company can contain several underlying Projects, which can inherit different kinds of information from the Company without needing further configuration. At this level, License, Clusters, Providers, Users, Service Account Users, Groups can be managed. To know more about Company configuration, give a check to the dedicated [documentation section](/development_suite/company/create.mdx).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Company level** is the second hierarchical level. A Company can contain several underlying Projects, which can inherit different kinds of information from the Company without needing further configuration. At this level, License, Clusters, Providers, Users, Service Account Users, Groups can be managed. To know more about Company configuration, check out the dedicated [documentation section](/development_suite/company/create.mdx).
```

* `Reporter`: A Reporter can view Project configuration and Runtime Environments
* `Guest`: A Guest has restricted access to data and can only view basic information for a selected subset of resources

Roles can be assigned at three types of Console resources:

* Company
* Project
* Runtime Environments

> Roles can be assigned at Company level from the Identities portal of the Company Overview section.  
> The following table describes the capabilities that are granted when assigning a Role at Company level:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Roles can be assigned at Company level from the Identities portal of the Company Overview section.
  
The following table describes the capabilities that are granted when assigning a Role at Company level:
```

* `Reporter`: A Reporter can view Project configuration and Runtime Environments
* `Guest`: A Guest has restricted access to data and can only view basic information for a selected subset of resources

Roles can be assigned at three types of Console resources:

* Company
* Project
* Runtime Environments

Roles can be assigned at Company level from the Identities portal of the Company Overview section.
  

> The following table describes the capabilities that are granted when assigning a Role at Company level:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table describes the capabilities that are granted when assigning a role at Company level:
```

| View Company Providers information                                         | `console.company.providers.view`                       | ✅     | ✅       | ✅        | ✅         | ✅                    | ✅            |
| Manage Clusters for this Company                                              | `console.company.cluster.manage`                       |        |          |           |            |                       | ✅            |
| View Company Clusters information                                          | `console.company.cluster.view`                         | ✅     | ✅       | ✅        | ✅         | ✅                    | ✅            |
| Manage Company Project Templates                                           | `console.company.templates.manage`                     |        |          |           |            |                       | ✅            |

Roles can be assigned at both Project and its Runtime Environments levels from the Identities portal of the specific Project Settings Area.

:::info

> Note that into Project Identities portal, only those Identities on which a Company role has previously been assigned are shown.  
> For each of them, therefore, the inherited permissions granted by Company role assignment at Company level will be visible. In this way, it will be possible to identify which additional permissions among those mentioned in he following table can be assigned at Project and Runtime Environments levels. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please note that, inside Project Identities portal, only those Identities on which a Company role has previously been assigned are shown.  
For each of them, therefore, the permissions inherited from the Company role assignment at the Company level will be visible. In this way, it will be possible to identify which additional permissions among those mentioned in the following table can be assigned at Project and Runtime Environments levels. 
```

| Restart pods on this specific Environment                                  | `console.environment.k8s.pod.delete`                   |        |          |           | ✅         |                       |               |
| Manage dashboards on any Project Environment                               | `console.project.environment.dashboard.manage`         |        |          |           |            | ✅                    |               |
| Manage dashboards on this specific Environment                             | `console.environment.dashboard.manage`                 |        |          |           |            |                       |               |
| Manage identities for this Project                                         | `console.project.users.manage`                         |        |          |           |            | ✅                    |               |
| Delete a single Project                                                    | `console.project.delete`                               |        |          |           |            |                       | ✅            |

> User Roles and permissions are manageable from CMS by **Console Super Users**, which are particular Console Administrators having access to the Console CMS and thus being able to perform actions at Console root level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User roles and permissions are manageable from CMS by **Console Super Users**, which are particular Console Administrators having access to the Console CMS and thus being able to perform actions at Console root level.
```

:::info

> Note that Console Super User is NOT included as a default Role. Consequently, it can not be assigned from the Identities portal, as it performs actions at exclusively at Console root level. 

Author: ```suggestion
Note that Console Super User is NOT included as a default Role. Consequently, it can not be assigned from the Identities portal, as it performs actions exclusively at Console root level. 
```

> Note that Console Super User is NOT included as a default Role. Consequently, it can not be assigned from the Identities portal, as it performs actions exclusively at Console root level. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that Console Super User is NOT included as a default role. Consequently, it can not be assigned from the Identities portal, as it performs actions exclusively at Console root level. 
```
